What is Exception Handling?

Exception handling is the process of dealing with unexpected or exceptional situations (exceptions) that may occur during the execution of a program.
Exceptions can be caused by various events, such as runtime errors, invalid inputs, or external factors like network issues.

Key Aspects of Exception Handling:

Try-Catch Blocks: 
	Exception handling typically involves using try-catch blocks. Code that might throw an exception is placed inside a try 	block, and the catch block is used to handle the exception if it occurs.

Exception Types: 
	Exceptions can be of different types, such as checked exceptions (compile-time exceptions) and unchecked exceptions (runtime 	exceptions). Checked exceptions must be explicitly handled, while unchecked exceptions do not need to be.

Handling Strategies: 
	Exception handling strategies include catching exceptions, logging errors, gracefully handling failures, and possibly 	recovering from errors.

Throwing Exceptions: 	
	Developers can also throw custom exceptions to indicate specific error conditions or to provide more meaningful error 	messages.

Finally Block: 
	The finally block is used to specify code that should be executed regardless of whether an exception was thrown or not. It's 	commonly used for cleanup tasks.

Best Practices for Exception Handling:

	Handle exceptions at an appropriate level in the application. Don't catch exceptions if you cannot handle them effectively.
	Provide meaningful error messages in exception objects to aid in debugging and troubleshooting.
	Log exceptions, but avoid exposing sensitive information in error messages.
	Consider using exception hierarchies or custom exception classes to organize and categorize exceptions.





Examples of Exception Handling in Java:

java
Copy code

try {

    // Code that might throw an exception
   	 int result = divide(10, 0);

} catch (ArithmeticException e) {

    // Handling the exception
    System.err.println("Division by zero: " + e.getMessage());

} finally {

    // Cleanup code (optional)

}

